yeah thank you for having me
yeah i wanted to uh talk about high
fidelity web archiving
and do a quick demo of some of the tools
that uh i've been working on
and so i'll uh we'll go ahead and and
start
uh so uh i want to talk about
so i work on a project called web
recorder and uh
the idea with uh web recorder is to is
sort of
uh motto is web archiving for all so the
idea is to
allow anyone to create uh web archives
of exactly what you see in your browser
and to archive them at full fidelity
uh and so um kind of just very briefly
what are
some of the goals of the web recorder
project uh yeah it's basically to focus
on
on uh capture and replay uh and and
archive things as as accurately as
possible
uh all the tools are fully open source
and uh
another key goal of course is to make uh
web archiving more accessible
uh by a decentralized technologies uh
and uh so
uh uh kind of to start what is
web archiving and what does it mean to
actually save a page and view it later
so you might think that well there are
kind of
some obvious approaches to start with uh
including
um for example the browser save page as
uh so every browser has that and you can
go to a page uh
and and and try to save a page
uh if you actually do that on on any
page that's uh anything that
that is not uh mostly just a static
document with html
uh you'll quickly find that uh what you
actually save doesn't generally work
very well
uh when you try to load it back up uh
part of it is that
uh that doesn't save the uh
it doesn't save the network traffic that
that got you to that point it's only
saves a static snapshot
and it doesn't save any of the state and
javascript
and oftentimes modern web pages which
are really
complex applications don't really work
when
just loaded from from your local file
system
another approach that is often tried is
sort of
kind of simple crawling and scraping you
could actually use wget
and you could point it at a website uh
and it'll retrieve that html it'll
extract all the links
and it'll repeat uh recursively but
again there's no
no javascript run uh and
you'll find out that uh you'll get the
static assets
from a site but anything that's loaded
dynamically
uh anything that's loaded through
javascript generally doesn't work
um and so these are sort of the uh the
what i would call lower fidelity
approaches to web archiving
and a high fidelity web archiving is
attempting to archive exactly what you
see and hear and do in the browser
and essentially to capture the the
interactive experience of websites
while keeping them interactive and so
since
modern websites still are made up of
kind of
http network requests that's basically
what
uh what we're attempting to capture
and so for example if we look at a at a
uh so and i'll
so if we look for example at a site like
twitter
uh that is uh highly
dynamic uh and you know if you look at
the dev tools for example we'll see that
when we load uh
twitter uh even though it's everything
that's that's being loaded
is is being served uh and you can
actually see the the kind of
the network requests coming in in
devtools and so
uh the browser already has this
obviously in order to
to create the page and so what if we're
able to capture all this network traffic
and simply recreate it later and so
that's basically the idea
with uh with high fidelity web archiving
and for that we have a browser extension
uh that's available on archive web page
so it's easy to remember and you can
actually go to archive web dev page
and from there if you're using a
chromium-based browser
it'll take you to the chrome web store
you can also download it as a desktop
app
and run it that way
and so what this extension does is
essentially archive the exact network
traffic that's being loaded in the
browser
and so before i show that
uh just very quickly i'll kind of
cover uh so
the way that it works is that it
archives the
all the traffic via the uh chrome debug
protocol
uh which is what devtools also uses and
it stores the data in in the browser in
indexeddb
and then it can serialize that data into
a format
uh and into a file format that's
downloadable or
that format can really be stored
anywhere including ipfs
and
what you could do after you've stored
that data of course is then to
replay them and uh replaying
websites is actually even harder than
actually capturing them you have to
rewrite the urls and you have to emulate
uh
really the the javascript environment uh
and it's sort of basically uh it's
basically
a mini uh a mini wayback machine that's
running entirely in your browser and so
you won't have time to cover all of that
but uh
that's sort of the the idea behind this
uh and uh i'll go ahead and start
a quick demo uh and
so let's say i'm on a twitter page here
and i have this
extension installed and so i can go and
uh
i can create i'll just create a new demo
here so called demo2
and i'll click start and
you can see this uh size counter going
up so that's actually all of the
all the network traffic uh what we just
saw in devtools
being archived into the browser and so
as more things are loading
on this uh on this twitter page uh
you can see this size counter going up
and uh when uh
basically the the extension tells you
sort of
if if more requests are being loaded or
if it's done
and so when it's green like this that
means that's that's uh
it's no longer loading anything
additional and so i can
kind of scroll down and then it'll start
loading additional things and the size
counter will go up
and uh since it's using the debug
protocol it tells me that
uh archive web page is debugging the
browser this is sort of a
a chrome the chromium-based uh
security settings so it's it's always
there
um i could also click on another page
let's say i can click on the
uh web recorder home page
then it'll also archive this page as
well um and so
let's say i'm done archiving and i can
click stop and then i can go to
browse archive and this shows me the two
pages that i have just archived
and
i can then click on on each of these
and now i'm loading twitter.com
entirely from from the network requests
that are stored in the browser
and i can basically
so again what's been archived is exactly
what's loaded so
i can kind of scroll down as far as i
did before i
won't let me
it'll probably stop at some point since
i only went that far
i can also click on on this
site that oh well maybe that didn't work
because there's a redirect but i can
also click on it
like this and load the home page in this
way
and so you also notice that when i look
at this page
it's i'm logged in as myself
uh so this is my view of of
twitter.comrobacore.io
just a web recorder twitter page but
it's logged in as me and so
uh this is sort of a unique view of the
web
and and if someone else goes to this url
they'll see something different because
it won't be logged in as them or
it won't be logged in as me and so
this extension really allows you to
archive exactly what you see in the
browser
and sort of your your own unique view of
the web which is of course
for most social media sites or many
sites is is entirely different
for for each individual and
uh then so what we also have
is uh is the sharing option and this is
where uh
i can actually go and uh and click start
sharing
and and now um
this archive has been written to ipfs
uh and i'll cover what that uh and i can
actually
um why don't i go ahead and
uh paste the link here into the chat
so that because it might take
take a little bit of time so i'll just
go ahead and and uh
let's see here
i'll just stop sharing for a second and
paste this link
and uh it might take a little bit for it
to
to load and in the meantime i'll go
ahead and cover
what is happening here and so again the
idea is that
you can share your unique view of the
web with others
and so um
so how is it how's this data actually
serialized to ipfs
uh and we have a format called waxy
which stands for
web archive collection zipped and it's a
zip-based format
uh inside of it it stores data another
format called work
which is a standardized format created
by internet archive
and it also stores the raw indices
uh into the data so i basically have the
http request sponsor traffic and an
index to look that up
and also a list of pages and there's a
manifest
containing all of the files and a key
property of this format
is that since it's a zip file uh it can
be random accessed
and so uh the idea is that even if you
have a large archive
you don't have to load everything all at
once and that's sort of a key
requirement for this to
to work and so what's actually written
to idpfs
uh and what's written is actually four
files uh the index
uh the uh a service worker sw.js
and a ui file ui.js and then the actual
archive
in this waxy format is also stored
in in that as part of the multihash and
so
uh what i just shared in that in the
channel is basically a link to
this multihash that was just created
directly in the browser
uh and uh the idea is that uh so i
shared a link to
to an http gateway um
that's that's one way to load the data
uh there's actually
multiple ways to so
the sharing options uh include
uh this is basically the sharing menu in
the extension
and so it'll uh basically allows you to
to get the the multihash that was just
shared
get the shareable url through
a replay webpage which is another site
that that's hosted that will then use
jsipfs to load that hash
or you could just get an https gateway
link uh which is
perhaps the most most compatible i would
say but not necessarily the fastest
uh and uh here
uh top is the status and as you probably
noticed i was using the brave browser
and the reason for that is that brave
has native
support for go ipfs which is really
great and so
that allows me to connect to
the native go ipfs
daemon that's running that has been
started by brave
and currently uh the way that this works
is that i already had to enable it in
brave
manually and then i actually check which
port the
the uh ipfs uh api server is running and
it's
um on one of these predefined ports
depending whether it's uh
a brave nightly or a brave uh production
release
um eventually i would like to have it so
that
this is possible to determine through an
api and
brave does actually have this api
chrome.ipfs
uh for extensions but currently it's
only available to the ipfs companion
and so i'm i'm working with brave and
they're trying to make that more
more generically accessible to other
extensions as well and that will make
this a little bit
uh simpler um so
that's sharing and brave that that works
probably the
best you could also share in the
electron app
which i didn't show but there is uh
basically
download archive as an app which has
essentially the same ui
and this app uh starts a local
desired pfs daemon node and so it
connects to
a local running instance um and
that also generally works pretty well um
then of course
the more general use case is if you're
using this in chrome
uh there are still some some uh
some issues to resolve of course since
there are no direct pdp connections
in in chrome uh everything
must be served over a websocket uh
there's no webrtc either because i'm
using a service worker
and so it connects to the way that the
that basically
okay the way that connecting to ipfs in
in chrome works
is uh basically or
in a browser that doesn't have native
support is
by connecting to a preload node
which then loads the entire hash
essentially as a kind of proxy
and that can be problematic especially
if your archive
is very large uh that will make it
harder to
uh so essentially have to sync
everything that i just archived
over uh over that websocket
and also the format wax designed for
random access
whereas preloading is not and so those
are
some of the current limitations one one
minute warning
to wrap up uh i think there's some of
the current
limitations of the system uh is that uh
basically the the preloading isn't yet
working as reliably
as i would like it to uh when loading
over a gateway
occasionally there are timeouts since uh
since it's making a lot of uh small
range requests
uh and when using replay webpage it also
requires a preload server
uh yeah and that's that's basically it
and uh
maybe i'll also share uh
i'll quickly share another uh
so here's another archive that was that
was just made
earlier uh and i'll put it in the chat
and uh yeah
so that's that's basically that the idea
is that you can create archives directly
in your browser
uh and uh and then share them with
others
uh if you're using brave it works really
well if you're using chrome
uh hopefully we'll have it working
better in the future
and so you can share sort of your unique
view of the web